Walk them back.
Let's talk about the second point of making a progressive webapp and probably the cutest little icon
that I'm going to have in this course.
The app manifest now for a progressive Web app to behave like a native app we need to mimic not just
the function of a native app but also some of the views that we get with it or the shell for example
on your phone.
You can download an app and have an app icon on Android devices you have things such as splash screens.
The idea is to make the web app as indistinguishable as possible to a real mobile app.
And we can do that with the app manifest before we get into it.
The one thing I do want to point is that a lot of people forget to include in their index start a shemale
file this line over here and this comes out of the box with create react up he can see that I'm in the
public index that a folder and this line which is the meta tag with viewport optimizes the app for multiple
devices.
And this might seem super obvious but a lot of people forget it.
And this line helps with adjusting the screen size based on the device.
So this is a must.
And it will warn you if you're missing this line and the lighthouse report.
So now that we have the screen set up for mobile devices.
Let's talk about the app manifest.
And as you can see in our public folder again this is something that we get for free from create reactor
and this is it.
This is the manifest dodgiest on file.
It's a simple Jaisalmer filed that gives the developers the ability to control how the app should appear
to the user in areas where they would expect to see apps such as the mobile device homescreen.
And just define how the app is going to launch and how it's going to look.
So if you remember in my example over here with this hacker news app we had the ad to homescreen button
in the application tab and you might have noticed that we actually clicked on this thing called manifest
and the application and that's the manifest dot Jasonville the browser reads this and spits out this
little piece of information for us.
And if I scroll down you see that I have icons here that to get downloaded just like I did for when
I downloaded it onto my home screen.
And this is the icon that you'll see when you download this app on your mobile phone.
And it also gives us this nice little feature to add to homescreen.
So this is the app manifest file and what it does.
Now how do we generate these icons.
We see over here that create re-act app has generated a feather on in the public folder but we're missing
a few things aren't we.
We don't have all these other sized icons for mobile phones because we still need to generate them for
our app and we can see here that they have different sizes based on whichever device this gets downloaded
on.
Luckily for us there's a great tool that does this very nicely and easily.
It's called real con generator.
And this all we need to do is provide an image such as an image of a robot by just clicking on select
Fab.com picture and it will take you through the steps to download these.
And all we need to do is include them in our public folder just like the Fabrikant icon laws and reference
them in the manifest dot Jaisalmer the end door.
This is exactly where we're going to do in our exercise to turn our robot friends up into a progressive
Web app.
Another thing that this web site does for us is previewing and customizing the splash screen for our
manifest file.
Now what is a splash screen.
In older versions of chrome for Android tapping on the home screen icon for an app would often take
up to a couple of hundred milli seconds before that screen gets loaded.
A user would see a white screen which makes the experience a little bit jarring.
And it looks like the Web site is loading really slow.
So chrome 47 and above support this idea of a splash screen where you can add a background color when
you tap on the app.
The progressive Web app instead of loading the white screen it's going to load something called a splash
screen.
Where will have the background color the name and icon of the web and you will get that all from our
manifest God Jaisalmer.
And this is all done simply to make your web app feel a lot closer to what you see with native apps.
When you click on native apps even if they're loading they have some sort of a background and icon to
show you that it is loading over although that's it.
That's pretty simple right.
All we need is some icons and add them to manifest.
Got JS on R-Pa.
That's it for now.
I'll see in the next one.
Bye bye.